README.md, before:

![preview](https://img.shields.io/badge/-stable-darkgreen.svg)
![version](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?color=blue&label=version&query=version&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FNebukam%2Fcom.nebukam.cluster%2Fmaster%2Fpackage.json)
![in development](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-black.svg)

# N:Cluster
#### Space partitioning library

N:Cluster is a Library to manage abstract, neighbor-based structures that can fit in a 3d-indexed structure (along 3 separate axis)

### Features
N:ORCA is currently in development, and while the repo is available to use and download, there is no documentation yet.

### High level concept
A Cluster is a 3D array on steroids, with extended functionalities such as **lookup wrapping**. Each slot has a size and position in space, at the cost of overall size : **a single cluster is limited to 255 x 255 x 255**.

It can be used for 1D & 2D structures as well, although given the way to works, it was more efficient to build it with 3 dimensions from the ground up. Each cluster's positionning and indexing functionalities are embedded in a ```ClusterBrain``` struct that manages how a cluster position its content as well as how indices are computed and retrieved.

---
## Hows

### Installation
To be used with Unity's Package Manager.

See [Unity's Package Manager : Getting Started](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/upm-parts.html)

### Quick Start

There is two main cluster you can use : ```ClusterSlotFlex<V, B>``` & ```ClusterSlotFixed<V, B>```.
Both are derived from the abstract ```SlotCluster<V, B>```, but manage their memory very differently :

- ```ClusterSlotFlex<V, B>``` relies on a List. As such, it is a good candidate when in need for a partially-filled 3D grid.
- ```ClusterSlotFixes<V, B>``` relies on an array. As such, it comes with a larger base memory footprint, but scales better when you need a full or near-full cluster.


```CSharp

    using Nebukam.Cluster;
    using Unity.Mathematics;

    ...

    // Create a cluster
    m_cluster = new SlotClusterFixed<Slot, CylindricBrain>();

    // Make sure to initialize it before using it
    // It requires a slot model, and max boundaries.
    // The slot model hold a single slot properties (size, etc)
    model = new SlotModel();

    // Init the cluster as a 10 x 10 x 10 cube
    m_cluster.Init(model, int3(10,10,10));

    ...


```

From there you can :

```CSharp

    // Try to get the slot at x:0, y:0, z:0 if it exists
    m_cluster.TryGet(0, 0, 0, out ISlot slot);

```

```CSharp

    // Try to get the slot containing an arbitrary position
    m_cluster.TryGet(float3(1.2f, 5.0f, 8.0f), out ISlot slot);

```

```CSharp

    // Get or create a slot at a given position
    ISlot slot = m_cluster.Add(0, 0, 0);

```

---
## Dependencies
- **Unity.Burst 1.1.2** [com.unity.burst]()
- **Unity.Jobs 0.0.7** [com.unity.jobs]()
- **Unity.Collections 0.0.9** [com.unity.collections]()
- **Unity.Mathematics 1.1.0** -- [com.unity.mathematics](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/Unity.Mathematics)
- **N:Common** -- [com.nebukam.common](https://github.com/Nebukam/com.nebukam.common.git)
- **N:JobAssist** -- [com.nebukam.job-assist](https://github.com/Nebukam/com.nebukam.job-assist.git)

Commit message:

Updated Readme + added dependencies SemVer
Updated Readme with additional information regarding custom git dependencies, as well as adding semantic versioning to dependencies declaration for everything to work properly when using UPM's git fetch (along with any git dependency resolver package).

README.md, after:

![preview](https://img.shields.io/badge/-stable-darkgreen.svg)
![version](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?color=blue&label=version&query=version&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FNebukam%2Fcom.nebukam.cluster%2Fmaster%2Fpackage.json)
![in development](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-black.svg)

# N:Cluster
#### Space partitioning library

N:Cluster is a Library to manage abstract, neighbor-based structures that can fit in a 3d-indexed structure (along 3 separate axis)

### Features
N:ORCA is currently in development, and while the repo is available to use and download, there is no documentation yet.

### High level concept
A Cluster is a 3D array on steroids, with extended functionalities such as **lookup wrapping**. Each slot has a size and position in space, at the cost of overall size : **a single cluster is limited to 255 x 255 x 255**.

It can be used for 1D & 2D structures as well, although given the way to works, it was more efficient to build it with 3 dimensions from the ground up. Each cluster's positionning and indexing functionalities are embedded in a ```ClusterBrain``` struct that manages how a cluster position its content as well as how indices are computed and retrieved.

---
## Hows

### Installation
To be used with [Unity's Package Manager](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/upm-ui-giturl.html) + [Git Dependency Resolver For Unity](https://github.com/mob-sakai/GitDependencyResolverForUnity) (or any git dependencies resolving package, really).

⚠ [Git Dependency Resolver For Unity](https://github.com/mob-sakai/GitDependencyResolverForUnity) must be installed *before* in order to fetch nested git dependencies.
{: .alert .alert-danger}

See [Unity's Package Manager : Getting Started](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/upm-parts.html)

### Quick Start

There is two main cluster you can use : ```ClusterSlotFlex<V, B>``` & ```ClusterSlotFixed<V, B>```.
Both are derived from the abstract ```SlotCluster<V, B>```, but manage their memory very differently :

- ```ClusterSlotFlex<V, B>``` relies on a List. As such, it is a good candidate when in need for a partially-filled 3D grid.
- ```ClusterSlotFixes<V, B>``` relies on an array. As such, it comes with a larger base memory footprint, but scales better when you need a full or near-full cluster.


```CSharp

    using Nebukam.Cluster;
    using Unity.Mathematics;

    ...

    // Create a cluster
    m_cluster = new SlotClusterFixed<Slot, CylindricBrain>();

    // Make sure to initialize it before using it
    // It requires a slot model, and max boundaries.
    // The slot model hold a single slot properties (size, etc)
    model = new SlotModel();

    // Init the cluster as a 10 x 10 x 10 cube
    m_cluster.Init(model, int3(10,10,10));

    ...


```

From there you can :

```CSharp

    // Try to get the slot at x:0, y:0, z:0 if it exists
    m_cluster.TryGet(0, 0, 0, out ISlot slot);

```

```CSharp

    // Try to get the slot containing an arbitrary position
    m_cluster.TryGet(float3(1.2f, 5.0f, 8.0f), out ISlot slot);

```

```CSharp

    // Get or create a slot at a given position
    ISlot slot = m_cluster.Add(0, 0, 0);

```

---
## Dependencies
- **Unity.Burst 1.1.2** [com.unity.burst]()
- **Unity.Jobs 0.0.7** [com.unity.jobs]()
- **Unity.Collections 0.0.9** [com.unity.collections]()
- **Unity.Mathematics 1.1.0** -- [com.unity.mathematics](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/Unity.Mathematics)
- **N:Common** -- [com.nebukam.common](https://github.com/Nebukam/com.nebukam.common.git)
- **N:JobAssist** -- [com.nebukam.job-assist](https://github.com/Nebukam/com.nebukam.job-assist.git)
